\section{Non-Ground Temporal Programs}\label{sec:non-ground}

To capture the semantics of grounding temporal rules, we need to raise
our discussion from the propositional to the first-order level. For
the logic of Here-and-There and Equilibrium Logic, the corresponding
first-order logics are the logic of Quantified Here-and-There and
Quantified Equilibrium Logic, respectively, both of which are well
studied in the literature \cite{peaval06a} \cite{peaval08a}.

The discussion of a first-order variant of THT and TEL, however, is
somewhat less exhaustive. Descriptions of the semantics of the telingo
temporal answer set solver remain on the propositional level. A paper
where the first-order case is considered is \cite{agcapevidi17a},
where the authors define the logic of Quantified Temporal
Here-and-There with static domains (QTHT for short), where they allow
temporal operators $\Next$, $\alwaysF$ and $\eventuallyF$. They
consider a syntactic fragment of first-order temporal formulas called
\emph{splittable temporal formulas} over infinite traces, define a
safety condition for such programs, and discuss a solver for such
programs, STeLP.

In this section, we will extend the definition of QTHT to all the
temporal operators discussed in Section 2, and define a more
permissive, but similarly powerful safety criterion for temporal logic
programs. Finally, we present a novel grounding procedure that results
in a more compact ground instantiation than a naive grounding
approach, allowing us to reify and solve the resulting propositional
temporal program using our meta-telingo.lp encoding discussed in the
previous section.

\input{4-nonground/qtht.tex}
\input{4-nonground/transform.tex}

